# Discussion

## Implications for the Theory

The two most influential findings in this seminar paper are the inconsistent mediation regarding partial AI disclosure and the amplification of disclosure cues in participants with higher critical media literacy.

Splitting up the inconspicuous effect of AI disclosure on message credibility and therefore revealing a positive effect of partial AI disclosure on message credibility without the negative effect of heightened AI perception supports the finds of @@chung_disclose_2026.
It implies that the transparency of disclosing that AI has been utilized is perceived as positive by users.
This positive effect of disclosure might be even stronger when transparency is increased even more.
This could be achieved by more detailed disclosure statements to let users in on the content creation process and the exact areas of AI utilization.
Yet, the overall non-significant effect implies that the negative effect of having the impression that the content is generated by AI more is very relevant in this context.
When considering that this impression is not only shaped by the disclosure but also other visual and textual clues of the stimuli the negative effect might be reducible.
Reducing typical cues for AI usage in the content while also disclosing minor AI involvement in an honest way could be a good option to increase the positive transparency effect and reduce the negative AI perception effect.
This could lead to overall higher message credibility in the area of disclosed partial AI usage.

Another addition to existing research in the field is the amplification of the effects of AI disclosure in individuals with higher critical media literacy.
The finding here clearly contradicts the moderation hypothesis made beforehand.
Participants with higher critical media literacy reacted more strongly to disclosure cues, which shows that the label is not questioned as anticipated, but rather more strongly taken into consideration.
A reason for this could be that reacting to the cue of disclosure is exactly showing the depth of interaction present in participants with higher CML.
Noticing and processing the disclosure is a sign of engagement with the content, believing it is reasonable when participants don't perceive other contradicting cues.
This might have been the case in the given stimuli for the participants questioned within this research.

## Implications for the Practice

The research conducted in this seminar paper only has limited impact on practical applications due to the small number of participants in the study.
Nonetheless, the possibility of overall higher message credibility when increasing the transparency by disclosing partial AI usage is interesting for content creators.
The penalization of AI generated content, that is perceived as such is still important to take into account here.
Yet, if AI is being used in a sensible manner and not obviously visible to users, disclosing the usage honestly doesn't seem to be penalized according to my research.

## Limitations

Several limitations can be noted about the research presented within this seminar paper.

First and foremost, the small sample size of participants in the experiment limits generalizability and makes the research more exploratory than definitive.
Nonetheless, interesting results with significant statistical effects were reached and can be taken seriously in this limited context.
Furthermore, the sample itself was skewed towards younger, more educated individuals, which can further limit the results to this sample.
This non-representative sample is mainly rooted in the sourcing strategy used.

Another limitation within this research that should be briefly noted is the stimuli created for the experiment.
While the dummy social media posts were deliberately designed without an author, a source, and in the same general style to make the message the point of focus for participants, it cannot be claimed that the posts were entirely identical in the degree of inherent message credibility.
The statements shown could be rated as differently credible without taking AI involvement and disclosure into account.
Therefore, the rated message credibility could also be partly influenced by the nature of the message itself.

In line with this, the path direction of perceived AI usage and message credibility can not clearly be confirmed.
It is possible, within the conducted experiment, that the rating of message credibility influenced the perceived AI usage as well, because both are measured at the same time.
Therefore, the direction of the b-path in the research model is assumed and has not been further confirmed in this research.

At last, a more technical limitation of the analysis is also relevant to this research.
The more credible approach for the within-subject experiment of using a mixed linear model has been implemented when possible.
An exception here is the mediation analysis, because the statsmodels mediation class used does not support mixed models.
For this part of the analysis, an OLS regression with 1000 bootstrap replications has been used.
The non-independence of observations within a single subject could therefore not be accounted for in these estimates.
This might lead to amplified results within this section and should be interpreted with appropriate caution.

## Future Research

Several interesting directions of research could follow upon this seminar paper.

The clearest one would be a revision of the experiment with a more rigorous sample size and possibly more detailed AI disclosure labels.
This would give deeper insights into the generalizability of the presented results and also explore the most interesting strand of partial AI disclosure further.
In this regard, exploring the reasons for the positive effect of partial disclosure more could hold interesting results, which would deepen the understanding of this result.
More nuanced labels could include further explained AI involvement, like designed with AI, the script has been aided by AI, or factual information has been checked by AI.

Further, the proposed reduction of cues for AI involvement could be lowered in some stimuli with partial disclosure to test whether the tuning of these two influences could actually result in overall higher message credibility.
Along this line, the stimuli overall could be revised and combinations of outside cues of AI usage and AI disclosure could be combined in a multitude of ways to interpret these results further.

This could especially hold interesting insights into the reactions of participants with higher CML.
Reactions to disclosure and outside cues could be mapped more broadly and interpreted.

Overall, I’m positive that enlarging the entire research with more stimuli and participants would eliminate most limitations that this approach did not have the resources to address.
